Low anterior resection or LAR,
is a surgery used to treat certain cancers of the rectum.
This surgery is used when the cancer is
located sufficiently high enough in your rectum
so the anal sphincter muscles can be spared.
This allows you to have bowel movements in the usual way.
Your surgeon will remove the
part of your rectum containing the cancer.
Then the remaining part of your rectum
is reconnected to your colon.
The spot where the two ends are attached
is called an anastomosis.
In some cases, a temporary illeostomy
may be needed to allow time
for the anastomosis to fully heal.
Your surgeon will bring part of your small intestine
out to a small opening on your abdomen.
This creates a new site on your abdomen called a stoma.
Stool will leave your body through the stoma
and collect in an ostomy pouch.
A temporary illeostomy is usually closed
a few months after your initial surgery.